The files in this folder contain the code used for the EINS supervised validation as discussed in the manuscript titled: "Ensemble Multi-Omics Integration Increases Robustness and Interpretability", shown in Figure 3 and Supplementary Figure 3. For Figure 3, EINS integration was performed with a reduced CCLE dataset with 156 samples, representing 9 primary site groups (named CCLE_9). For Supplementary Figure 3, the CCLE dataset contained 313 samples, representing 17 primary site groups (named CCLE_313). The preprocessed csv files of the CCLE_313 data can be found at Zenodo. (LINK TO FOLLOW).
For the supervised validation, the principle components were extracted for single omics data using principle component analysis (PCA), embeddings were extracted from the multi-omics integration methods, and canonical correlation analysis (CCA) was performed with each multi-omics integration embedding as reference. The predictive performance of each method is validated using repeated cross-validation with six classifier algorithms: Random Forest, Support Vector Machine (SVM), XGBoost, Logistic regression, LASSO, and Elastic Net. For each method, 100 independent train-test splits were generated with 20% of samples held out for testing. Identical splits were used across all classifiers to ensure fair comparison. For each train-test split and classifier combination, macro-averaged F1 score were computed. Performance metrics were averaged across all 100 repetitions to obtain mean and standard deviation estimates. The mean F1 score across all six classifiers for each method was calculated, i.e. the single-omics, the multi-omics integrations, and the ensemble integration. For details, see the manuscript.
The file named "EINS_CCLE_Supervised_Data" contains the code to import the CCLE_313 data, filter the 156 samples to create the CCLE_9 datasets, and perform EINS multi-omics integration and ensemble integration for the CCLE_313 data. To perform the EINS integration for the CCLE_9 dataset, perform the EINS code with the CCLE_9 data in the $add_Omics_df function, instead of the CCLE_313 data. The EINS object resulting from the integration can then be stored in an RDS file.
The file named "EINS_CCLE_Supervised_Validation" contains the code to read the EINS object RDS file, helper functions to perform the cross-validation, and plotting functions are included. This code needs to be performed for both the CCLE_9 EINS object and CCLE_17 EINS object in parallel.
