The files in this folder contain the code used for the EINS unsupervised validation as discussed in the manuscript titled: "Ensemble Multi-Omics Integration Increases Robustness and Interpretability", shown in Figure 2 and Supplementary Figure 2. For this analysis, 7 test data sets were generated, with cell lines from an increasing number of primary sites included (3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9 sites). Each of the primary sites were represented by at least 10 cell lines. For Figure 2, the geometric mean of the Adjusted Rand Index (ARI) and Normalized Mutual Information (NMI) scores was provided. For Supplementary Figure 3, the ARI and NMI scores were provided. The preprocessed csv files of the CCLE_313 data, which is at the base for the test sets, can be found at Zenodo. (LINK TO FOLLOW).
For the unsupervised validation, the clusters calculated from single-omics hierarchical clustering, multi-omics integration and Consensus Hierarchical Clustering (CHC) ensemble integration were selected from all test datasets, and the ARI and NMI metrics and their geometric mean were compared based on grouping of the same primary site samples together. For details, see the manuscript.
The file named "EINS_CCLE_Unsupervised_Data" contains the code to import the CCLE_313 data, filter samples to create the one of the reduced test datasets, and perform EINS multi-omics integration and ensemble integration for the reduced data. To generate the different reduced datasets, the number of included primary sites needs to be altered in the "Group selection" section, and the number of components or factors supplied in the EINS multi-omics integration methods need to be updated to match the number of primary sites. We recommend performing this code in parallel for the different test datasets, as the integration can be computationally intensive. The resulting EINS object can be stored in an RDS file
The file named "EINS_CCLE_Unsupervised_Plot" contains the code to read the EINS object RDS files for all test datasets, helper functions to calculate ARI and NMI scores, and plotting functions. For this code, only the correct RDS file names for the EINS objects need to be altered.
